# otpless-js-sdk

Otpless-js-sdk is a JS SDK used for authenticating users using WhatsApp. The SDK can be used in both client side and server side applications.

## Features

- Get WhatsApp intent for redirecting users to WhatsApp from login page.
- Validate OTPless token received after authenticating users using WhatsApp.

## Getting Started

1.  Install the otpless-js-sdk from the npm repository.

    ```sh
    npm i otpless-js-sdk
    ```

2.  Initialize the sdk. `appId` is required. `enableErrorLogging` is an optional parameter. On setting it to true, the error logs are consoled on the stderr (console.error).
    ```sh
    import SDK from "otpless-js-sdk";
    const otplessSdk = new SDK({
    appId: YOUR_APP_ID,
    enableErrorLogging:true
    });
    ```
3.  Create a function using `createGetIntent` method and call it in the onclick of your WhatsApp button. This function returns a promise which resolves to a WhatsApp intent. Redirect the user to the intent when onClick event is triggered on your button

    ```sh
    const getIntent=otplessSdk.getIntent({
    redirectionURL: YOUR_WEBSITE_URL, });
    const intent=getIntent().then((intent)=>{
     return intent
    });

    ```

    RedirectionURL is an optional parameter.If not passed the user would be redirected to the default redirectionURL passed in the dashboard upon successfull authentication on WhatsApp

4.  Once the authentication process is complete, the user would be redirection to your RedirectionURL or the default url set up on the OTPless dashboard. The token would be passed into the query parameter when the redirection happens.

    1.  Clients can use function `startValidation` to extract token from queryParam and validate it. The function returns a promise which resolve to the following object.

    ```sh
        {
             token: null, stateMatched: false
        }
    ```

    ```sh
    otplessSdk.startValidation().then(({stateMatched,token})=>{
    // if token is not null, user has been authenticated successfully
    })
    ```

    2.  Clients can also extract the token on their own and pass it to `validateToken`. This takes in two parameters `token` and `state`. The state is randomly generated by the SDK during the intent generation and can be extracted using the function `getState`. This flow can be used when the Client is using the SDK in Node.js (Server side applications would have to follow this flow).

    ```sh
     const getIntent=otplessSdk.getIntent({
    redirectionURL: YOUR_WEBSITE_URL, });
    const intent=getIntent().then((intent)=>{
     return intent;
    });
    const state=getState(); //Store this state
    ```

    ```sh
      otplessSdk.validateToken({"TOKEN_FROM_THE QUERY_PARAM","STATE"}).then(({ isValidated, token }) => {
    if (isValidated) {
      console.log(isValidated, token);
            }
        }
    );
    ```

5.  The token generated in thelast step can now be used to fetch user data. However user data is only provided on the server side. So the client would have to send the token to their server and fetch the data using function `getUserData` on the server side. The function takes in two params `appSecret` and `token`. Make sure not to share the appSecret in the client side.
    ```sh
    const data = await getUserData({appSecret:YOUR_APP_SECRET,token:YOUR_APP_TOKEN})
    ```

## License

MIT

**Free Software, Hell Yeah!**
